Add Larch phase 2 (#2132)
w3f/Grants-Program: applications/zeeve_larch_phase_2.md

**Technology stack** would be same as we used earlier for the project:
- NodeJS
- SQLite
- ReactJS
- TailwindCSS
- Lerna
- Zombienet libraries and binary
- Kubernetes & Podman
- Prometheus, Grafana

**Core Components**
- Larch Backend
  - Consists of API's, UI bundle and network management logic.
- Larch UI
  - GUI of Larch which will bundled and compiled within Larch Backend for serving the UI.
- Larch CLI
  - The CLI component of Larch, starts the Larch service and provide other helper functionalities.

The core components are compiled into a single executable binary, which can directly be run on any Linux x86_64 machine.

**Architecture**

![Larch Architecture](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Zeeve-App/larch/main/docs/assets/larch_architecture.png)

The proposed work will implement utility functions like import/export of configurations, logs download and add more Zombienet configuration parameters to the multiple services along with monitoring support for K8 based deployments. Podman based deployment will be maintained with major focus will on Kubernetes based deployment.

### Ecosystem Fit

- Where and how does your project fit into the ecosystem?

>   - **Zeeve Larch** improves the Polkadot/Substrate based network testing done by Zombienet by providing GUI layer to the it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Zeeve Larch** improves the Polkadot/Substrate-based network testing done by Zombienet by providing a GUI layer to it.
```

- Published a [blog post](https://www.zeeve.io/blog/how-to-use-substrate-to-create-parachains-in-polkadot/) about the usage and implementation of parachains
- Spoke with David Hawig, Richard Casey and Gautam Dhameja from the Parity team regarding the development of Zeeve and the Web3 Grant application

## Development Roadmap :nut_and_bolt:

### Overview

- **Total Estimated Duration:** 6 months
- **Full-Time Equivalent (FTE):**  4
- **Total Costs:** 24,000 USD

### Milestone 1 — Monitoring Support for K8 deployments & Global config

- **Estimated duration:** 45 Days
- **FTE:**  4
- **Costs:** 7,500 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | GPLv3 |
| **0b.** | Documentation | We will provide the **tutorial** to that explains how a user can create a network configuration and start the network |
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by comprehensive unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |

> | 1. | Monitoring for k8 based deployment | We will add Monitoring support to kubernetes based deployment |

Reviewer: Could you ellaborate on the monitoring support? What will it include in detail?

Author: added supported metrics.

> | 2. | Zombienet global parameters support | Add All possible Global parameters in template creation corresponding to the supported Zombienet version [settings](https://paritytech.github.io/zombienet/network-definition-spec.html#settings) |

Reviewer: Could you list all parameters what will be supported in addition to the current larch version?

Author: The link contains the list of global parameters (settings section), they may change at time of final commit based on Zombienet version, do you want to specify all of the them here for current version ?

| 3. | In App docs update | Update in app docs to reflect the features added in the current milestone |
| 4. | Update Zombienet version | Update supported Zombienet version to latest stable version at the time of release |

### Milestone 2 — Export & Import of config and Parachain & Relaychain config 

- **Estimated duration:** 40 Days
- **FTE:**  4
- **Costs:** 8,000 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| **0a.** | License | GPLv3 |
| **0b.** | Documentation | We will provide the **tutorial** to that explains how a user can create a network configuration and start the network |
| **0c.** | Testing and Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by comprehensive unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |

> | 1. | Zombienet config import & export | We will add Zombienet config import & export support of the template, for example config import as shown in the **Upload Config to template (Mock)** and **Config Download (Mock)**. The while uploading the config it will validate the config and prefill the template UI to perform further modification through UI on existing config. |

Reviewer: >  The while uploading the config it will validate the config and prefill the template UI to perform further modification through UI on existing config.

Please double-check this sentence, there seems to be something missing.

Also, please specify the file type or standard that the config file will adhere to.

Author: fixed and provided the supported formats

> | 2. | Zombienet Parachain and Relaychain node group config support | Add All possible Parachain (not collator & collator groups) and node group config in template creation corresponding to the supported Zombienet version [Parachains](https://paritytech.github.io/zombienet/network-definition-spec.html#parachains) & [node_groups](https://paritytech.github.io/zombienet/network-definition-spec.html#relaychain) as shown in the **Node Groups (Mock)** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 2. | Zombienet Parachain and Relaychain node group config support | Add all possible Parachain (not collator & collator groups) and node group configs in template creation corresponding to the supported Zombienet version [Parachains](https://paritytech.github.io/zombienet/network-definition-spec.html#parachains) & [node_groups](https://paritytech.github.io/zombienet/network-definition-spec.html#relaychain) as shown in the **Node Groups (Mock)** |
```

# Zeeve Larch

- **Team Name:** [Zeeve](https://www.zeeve.io)
- **Payment Address:** `0x5E1257E928aa42E3D0cd9E2A7537E37D108D811B` Ethereum (USDT/USDC) 
- **[Level](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/tree/master#level_slider-levels):** 2

## Project Overview :page_facing_up:

This grant is follow up grant of [Zeeve_zoombienet_deployment_testing_automation](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/pull/1399) & [Update Zeeve Larch team, duration and deliverables](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/pull/1744)

### Overview

**Zeeve Larch** : GUI for Zombienet

**Zeeve Larch** is a cross-platform GUI application that provides a user-friendly interface for managing and monitoring Polkadot and Substrate networks. It is built on top of the Zombienet CLI tool, which allows users to easily spawn ephemeral Polkadot/Substrate networks and perform tests against them.

The following work will improve and add more capabilities to the existing tool making it more extensible in terms of configuration parameters and utility functionalities.

### Project Details

> **Zeeve Larch** is currently can do a deployment of with main configurations but still lacks many other configuration parameters that was introduced during the previous development cycle and guided declarative testing input.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Zeeve Larch** can currently can do a deployment with main configurations but still lacks many other configuration parameters that were introduced during the previous development cycle and guided declarative testing input.
```
